+++
date = "14 Dec 2016"
author = "Dave"
draft = false
title = "Background Preparation"
slug = "background"
+++

Here are some suggestions for getting the necessary background for the
seminar.  

## Cryptography

If you have already taken a cryptography course, you should have
enough cryptography background already.  If not, here are some
suggested ways to get enough crypo background over winter break to be
ready for the seminar.

### On-Line Courses

[**Udacity cs387: Applied
Cryptography**](https://www.udacity.com/course/applied-cryptography--cs387)
- this is an open on-line course that you can take anytime taught by
myself (so I am somewhat partial to it!).  There are [some additional
materials for the course
available](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~evans/courses/cs387/),
including [extensive course notes
(PDF)](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~evans/courses/crypto-notes.pdf)
created by Daniel Winter.  This is a very short and informal
introduction to cryptography, which would be enough background to be
prepared for the seminar.  (I can't give an unbiased assessment of the
course, but according to Information Week, it is a recommended course
to [_"Pump Up IT
Careers"_](http://www.informationweek.com/strategic-cio/team-building-and-staffing/5-online-classes-to-pump-up-it-careers/d/d-id/898915).)

Dan Boneh's [**Cryptography
Course**](https://www.coursera.org/learn/crypto) (offered through
Coursera).  The materials from previous courses are not available
(although you may be able to find them if you are resourceful), so you
have to take the course when it is offered by Coursera. There is a
session starting December 26.  This is an excellent course that is a
bit longer and goes into more depth on many topics than my course.
You can read [Bryan Pendleton's more objective
comparison](http://bryanpendleton.blogspot.com/2012/05/comparing-coursera-and-udacity.html).

### Textbooks

[Crypto 101](https://www.crypto101.io/) - a very easy to read and
practically-focused introduction to cryptography (available as a [free,
creative-commons licensed PDF](/docs/Crypto101.pdf)).

[_Introduction to Modern
Cryptography_](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~jkatz/imc.html), Jonathan Katz
and Yehuda Lindell.  This provides a lot more depth that is required
for joining the seminar, but is an excellent book for ambitious
students with more time.


## Computing Systems

Students in the class are expected to have understanding of computing
systems and experience with systems-level programming at least at the
level of a typical introductory operating systems course.


